---
number: 9
title: Data Sovereignty
speakers:
  - samantha-callaghan
  - james-smithies
---

# Day Four: Session Two

## Abstract

_Data Sovereignty_

The session focused on the concept of indigenous data sovereignty and its
application to DH projects that deal with artefacts, data, images and concepts
that may be considered sacred, secret or culturally sensitive by certain groups
of people. Data sovereignty typically refers to the understanding that data is
subject to the laws of the nation in which it is stored, whereas indigenous data
sovereignty is a concept that reflects a conviction that data is subject to the
laws of the nation from which it was collected (i.e. of the source community).
These issues become most poignant when dealing with cultural artefacts from
non-Western cultures (such as Māori culture) or looted objects dispersed in
Western collections and dissemination of information about them. The tensions
between Open Access principles and the requirements of Intellectual Property
Rights/Management were highlighted. The session warned against presenting data
without context, commercialisation without permission and the use of data to the
detriment of communities and advocated respect for and a need for consultation
with the communities. The session formulated a set of questions to be considered
when envisaging any DH project that may deal with data potentially sensitive for
a group or groups of people, stressing the requirement for well-thought-through
infrastructures for holding datasets as well as for consistent policies for data
management and access.

This session by Samantha Callaghan was presented by Dr James Smithies.

<Download download="docs/4.2-Data_Sovereignty.pdf" />
<Speakers>

[Samantha Callaghan](https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/who-we-are/samantha-callaghan/)
is a Research Software Engineering Project Manager as well as the Georgian
Papers Programme Metadata Analyst. As an RSE Project Manager, Samantha guides
projects through KDL’s Software Development Life Cycle. She also undertakes
analysis, decommissioning documentation and outreach work, particularly in
relation to Indigenous DH and decolonising practice in the GLAM sector.

<Speaker speaker="james-smithies">

[Dr James Smithies](https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/who-we-are/dr-james-smithies/) is
Director of King’s Digital Lab. He was previously Senior Lecturer in Digital
Humanities and Associate Director of the UC CEISMIC Digital Archive at the
University of Canterbury, New Zealand. He has worked in the government and
commercial IT sectors as a technical writer and editor, business analyst, and
project manager. His monograph
_[The Digital Humanities and the Digital Modern](https://www.palgrave.com/gp/book/9781137499431)_
was published by Palgrave Macmillan in 2017.
