---
number: 8
title: Research Infrastructures
speakers:
  - arianna-ciula
  - james-smithies
---

# Day Four: Session One

## Abstract

_Best Practices in Design and Development of Research Infrastructures_

This session covered a number of topics in best practices of design and
development of Research Infrastructures with a particular focus on Research Data
Management (RDM).

It started with an outline of the “Open Access Chain” (Open standards – Open
data – Open source – Open licenses – Open access), drawing on opportunities and
challenges an open approach to data presents in an RSE context. One of the key
challenges is a necessity for a rigorous SDLC process and adoption of common
standards.

Responding to the needs of data-intensive research and machine-actionability,
FORCE11 coalition developed FAIR data principles that specify a set of
requirements for data and metadata: data should be _findabile_, _accessible_,
_interoperable_ and _reusable_. To facilitate transition to FAIR data, Go-FAIR
initiative developed a workflow (“FAIRification process”) that guides
researchers from retrieval of non-FAIR data to deployment of FAIR data
resources.

In the session, the place of RDM in the software development lifecycle at KDL
was discussed. The nature of Agile projects that KDL often works with, however,
means that in many cases the project begins before any data is collected or data
collection continues throughout evolutionary development requiring monitoring
methods and forward planning to be in place and exercised throughout the SDLC.

With proliferation of data, questions of privacy are more and more pressing.
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) became directly applicable in all EU
states on 25 May 2018 and requires informed consent to process personal data. In
this context, the history of the regulation and its implications, both legal and
ethical, for DH projects were discussed.

The final topic of the session were challenges related to software
sustainability and citation, including the tension between the need for openness
and reusability and a requirement for appropriate citation and giving credit to
contributors to every stage of the project. In order to ensure adequate
monitoring of the project at every stage of its development, issues of
Versioning, Sharing, Documentation, Licensing, Publishing (e.g. via Zenodo) need
to be addressed.

<Download download="docs/4.1-Research_Infrastructures.pdf" />
<Speakers>

[Dr James Smithies](https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/who-we-are/dr-james-smithies/) is
Director of King’s Digital Lab. He was previously Senior Lecturer in Digital
Humanities and Associate Director of the UC CEISMIC Digital Archive at the
University of Canterbury, New Zealand. He has worked in the government and
commercial IT sectors as a technical writer and editor, business analyst, and
project manager. His monograph The Digital Humanities and the Digital Modern was
published by Palgrave Macmillan in 2017.
