---
title: How to contribute?
date: 2019-08-27
toc: true
number: 3
---

If you have training materials, or events that you would like to contribute to
DARIAH Campus, you can do so in a number of ways.

View the flowchart below to see what kind of resource you want to contribute.

![Which DARIAH-Campus Resource?](images/DC_Which_DARIAH-Campus_Resource.png)

Once you know what kind of contribution you’d like to make, you can click to the
appropriate instructions in the navigation panel in this section.

## Learning Resources

### External Resource

#### Proposing an External Resource

Many projects now develop training and education materials as part of their
outputs. If your project developed and published online training materials that
you would like to be made available via the DARIAH-Campus discover layer, then
we ask you to provide a structured abstract with the following information:

<Panel>

**Title:** Title of the resource.<br/> **Date:** Date of publication.<br/>
**Teaser description (<100 words):** A short description of the resource in
fewer than 100 words.<br/> **Detailed description (<300 words):** A description
of the resource in fewer than 300 words.<br/> **Author:** The author(s) of the
resource.<br/> **Contributors:** Any other contributors to the resource.<br/>
**Editors:** Any editors (if required)<br/> **Lead project / Lead institution:**
The name of the project or lead institution that created the resource.<br/>
**Keywords:** As many keywords as are relevant for the resource.<br/>
**Domain:** A field of science or expertise covered by the resource.<br/>
**Competence level:** Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced.

</Panel>

This information will be used to generate the most accurate possible metadata
and tags for the external resource in DARIAH-Campus.

Your External Resource will be reviewed, and once approved by the DARIAH-Campus
team, it will be published on DARIAH-Campus.

### Hosted Resource

#### Proposing a Hosted Resource

If you have a set or compilation of training materials that you would like to be
hosted on DARIAH-Campus, then we’d love to hear from you. As a first step, we
ask you to provide a structured abstract with the following information:

<Panel>

**Title:** Title of the resource.<br/> **Detailed description (<300 words):** A
description of the resource in fewer than 300 words.<br/> **Author:** The
author(s) of the resource.<br/> **Contributors:** Any other contributors to the
resource.<br/> **Editors:** Any editors (if required).<br/> **Lead project /
Lead institution:** The name of the project or lead institution that created the
resource.<br/> **Keywords:** As many keywords as are relevant for the
resource.<br/> **Domain:** A field of science or expertise covered by the
resource.<br/> **Competence level:** Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced.<br/>
**Technology requirements:** Any specific technology or software needed to
create/use the resource.<br/> **Anticipated time of delivery:** An estimated
time for the completion of the resource to help with the planning process.

</Panel>

This information will be used to generate the most accurate possible metadata
and tags for the course in DARIAH-Campus.

#### Developing a Hosted Resource

Upon receiving this information, we will get in touch to discuss the development
of your proposed material and to invite you to submit. However, before starting
in GitHub, it is perhaps useful to compile your materials and determine the
content needed for your learning resource. The editorial team are available
on-hand to make the process of providing and editing materials as simple as
possible.

**If you are NOT familiar with GitHub**, we recommend you follow the steps in
the GitHub Workflow to help get you set up and guide you through the initial
stages of creating content.

**[Go to GitHub Workflow](./docs/github-workflow)**

**If you ARE familiar with GitHub**, and already have DARIAH-Campus set up, you
can use the `resource-template-folder`, which contains a template index.mdx file
for you to copy and edit according to your needs.

You can find this template folder in your GitHub editor in the ‘templates’
folder i.e

`dariah-campus > templates > resources > resource-template-folder`

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img1_copying.png)

**Copy** (do not ‘drag and drop’) the entire folder, and then **paste** it into
the ‘resources’ folder in your fork

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img2_pasting.png)

When you have these templates in your local ‘resources’ fork, you can start
editing. You can see an example of the edited `index.mdx` file here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img3_green.png)

Within this file, you will write all the content you want to include in your
resource. If you need a little more assistance in how to format this, or to
include certain elements, such as videos, images, or tables, please take a look
at our ‘Writing in Markdown’ guide in the ‘GitHub Workflow section.

When you have your content in the index.mdx file, save it (although we also
recommend saving this iteratively in your GitHub editor as a matter of course),
and if you are running a local version of DARIAH-Campus in your browser you
should see your event appear in the ‘Resources’ page, as in here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_HostRes_img4_inBrowser.png)

Once you are happy with your draft hosted resource, you can ‘commit’ it via
GitHub to the DARIAH-Campus team.

### Pathfinder

#### Proposing a Pathfinder

If you would like to contribute a Pathfinder, please contact us via the DARIAH
Helpdesk with a structured abstract, including the following information:

<Panel>

**Title:** Title of the Pathfinder.<br/> **Detailed description (<300 words):**
A description of the resource in fewer than 300 words.<br/> **Author:** The
author(s) of the resource.<br/> **Contributors:** Any other contributors to the
resource.<br/> **Editors:** Any editors (if required)<br/> **Keywords:** As many
keywords as are relevant for the resource.<br/> **Domain:** A field of science
or expertise covered by the resource.<br/> **Anticipated time of delivery:** An
estimated time for the completion of the resource to help with the planning
process.

</Panel>

The DARIAH-Campus team will then get back to you with any comments and/or
questions and a formal invitation to submit your material for review.

#### Developing a Pathfinder

DARIAH-Campus operates a community review system for our Pathfinders in order to
bring the broadest possible range of perspectives to each topic. Authors are
asked to send their Pathfinder to the DARIAH-Campus team as a Word document, and
it will be uploaded to GoogleDocs for comments from the community. Each
Pathfinder will remain open for four weeks, or until the author(s) are satisfied
that the review process is complete. There is no prescribed format for
DARIAH-Campus Pathfinders: both the form and content will be determined by their
topic, function, and audience. However, we ask that your review document:

- Provides the **basic metadata**: provide the title, author(s) and
  contributor(s) name(s), and keywords at the top of the document (as outlined
  above).
- Has an **introduction**: stating the purpose of the resource and what kinds of
  tools, information, bibliographical material, websites, etc that it brings
  together. Outline the structure of the resource and make it clear what the
  reader should learn from/get from it.
- Is **broken down into manageable sections**, organised under structuring
  headings, with a table of contents provided. Each section should provide
  **curated links** to relevant tools; websites; readings; and other resources,
  with contextualising interpretation, explanation, and/or narration.

Once any reviews or revisions have been completed, the Pathfinder will be hosted
and version-controlled in a GitHub repository, and available on DARIAH-Campus.

We ask you to convert your Pathfinder into Markdown for publication. Text must
be provided in a text editor such as Atom, TextWrangler, TextEdit, or Notepad++
rather than in a word processor such as MS Word.

**If you are NOT familiar with GitHub**, we recommend you follow the steps in
the GitHub Workflow to help get you set up and guide you through the initial
stages of creating content.

**[Go to GitHub Workflow](./docs/github-workflow)**

**If you ARE familiar with GitHub**, and already have DARIAH-Campus set up, you
can use the `resource-template-folder`, which contains a template index.mdx file
for you to copy and edit according to your needs.

You can find this template folder in your GitHub editor in the ‘templates’
folder i.e.

`dariah-campus > templates > resources > resource-template-folder`

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img1_copy.png)

**Copy** (do not ‘drag and drop’) the entire folder, and then **paste** it into
the ‘resources’ folder in your fork

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img2_paste.png)

When you have these templates in your local ‘resources’ fork, you can start
editing. You can see an example of the edited `index.mdx` file here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img3_index.png)

Within this file, you will write all the content you want to include in your
resource. If you need a little more assistance in how to format this, or to
include certain elements, such as videos, images, or tables, please take a look
at our ‘Writing in Markdown’ guide in the ‘GitHub Workflow section.

When you have your content in the index.mdx file, save it (although we also
recommend saving this iteratively in your GitHub editor as a matter of course),
and if you are running a local version of DARIAH-Campus in your browser you
should see your event appear in the ‘Resources’ page, as in here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_PFndr_img4_inBrowser.png)

Once you are happy with your draft Pathfinder, you can ‘commit’ it via GitHub to
the DARIAH-Campus team.

## Captured Event

In a recent report, it was found that the majority of the training contributions
made to DARIAH by its members were events (face-to-face workshops, lectures,
university courses or summer schools). DARIAH-Campus can support the ‘capture’
of events such as these and host the outputs from them to ensure they are
available for future users.

To help with this process, we have provided below some guidelines for making
training materials for face-to-face events available online with DARIAH-Campus.

We encourage contributions of digital materials from face-to-face training that
are of maximum use to learners, whether they were in attendance at the event or
not. Slideshows, photographs, and videos, whilst forming a record of an event’s
existence, can lack vital contextualising information. Thus, they often lose
some of their effectiveness online. With this in mind, for summer schools;
conferences; and other larger-scale events we have created a template that
situates these materials within as much contextual information as possible (such
as abstracts; collaboratively-taken notes; other multimedia; contact details
etc).

We recommend that you draft up the structure and content of the contextualising
information in Word or Google Docs before moving to Step 2, unless you are
comfortable with writing directly in Markdown.

We ask you to convert your Event Outputs into Markdown for publication. Text
must be provided in a text editor such as Atom, TextWrangler, TextEdit, or
Notepad++ rather than in a word processor such as MS Word.

If you are NOT familiar with GitHub, we recommend you follow the steps in the
GitHub Workflow to help get you set up and guide you through the initial stages
of creating content.

**[Go to GitHub Workflow](./docs/github-workflow)**

If you are familiar with GitHub, and already have DARIAH-Campus set up, you can
use the `event-template-folder`, which contains a template `index.mdx` file for
you to copy and edit according to your needs.

You can find this template folder in your GitHub editor in the ‘templates’
folder i.e.

`dariah-campus > templates > events > event-template-folder`

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img1_copy.png)

**Copy** (do not ‘drag and drop’) the entire folder, and then **paste** it into
the ‘resources’ folder in your fork.

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img2_paste.png)

When you have these templates in your local ‘resources’ fork, you can start
editing. You can see an example of the edited `index.mdx` file here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img3_ingreen.png)

Within this file, you will write all the content you want to include in your
captured event. If you need a little more assistance in how to format this, or
to include certain elements, such as videos, images, or tables, please take a
look at our ‘Writing in Markdown’ guide in the ‘GitHub Workflow section.

When you have your content in the index.mdx file, save it (although we also
recommend saving this iteratively in your GitHub editor as a matter of course),
and if you are running a local version of DARIAH-Campus in your browser you
should see your event appear in the ‘Events’ page, as in here:

![Copying the resource template folder](images/DC_CapEvent_img4_inBrowser.png)

Once you are happy with your 'Captured Event', you can ‘commit’ it via GitHub to
the DARIAH-Campus team.
