---
title: About
---

## Status

DARIAH-CAMPUS started as a pilot project exploring different ways of capturing
and consolidating DARIAH learning resources within the H2020-funded project
DESIR (DARIAH-ERIC Sustainability Refined).

After an initial positive feedback from the DARIAH communities, we decided to
establish and keep working on DARIAH-CAMPUS as a both a discovery framework and
a hosting platform for DARIAH training and education.

The beta version of DARIAH-CAMPUS was released on November 6th, 2019 at the
DESIR Event in Zagreb.

**We expect to get out of beta by January 2020. At that time we will also start
accepting new contributions to DARIAH-CAMPUS.**

We're still working on finalizing documentation and have a couple more features
in the pipeline. If you have learning resources that you would like to share on
DARIAH-CAMPUS, feel free to get in touch with us to discuss next steps.

## Goal

The goal of DARIAH-Campus (D-C) is to widen access to open, inclusive,
high-quality learning materials that aim to enhance creativity, skills,
technology and knowledge in the digital arts and humanities.

We recognise the breadth and experience of our community and hope that
DARIAH-Campus resources will reflect that. As trainers, we are all also
learners. Thus, we are open to the creativity and ideas of our contributors.
However, we also believe in the importance of creating learning resources that
are inclusive; discoverable; useful and re-usable; visually and stylistically
appealing; and sustainable. To ensure that we achieve this blend of attributes
consistently, we have created a set of guidelines. We hope that a sense of
prescribed structure will also make the process of creating resources more
straightforward, efficient, and effective.

<Panel>

Any recommendations and/or questions about the flexibility of these
guidelines—or general enquiries about the process of creating a learning
module—are welcome, and can be sent via the
[DARIAH Helpdesk](https://www.dariah.eu/helpdesk/), Subject: 'Education and
training'.

</Panel>
